Add docs for `AiPlan` and `AiToolkit` (#1101)
Effect-TS/website: content/src/content/docs/docs/ai/planning-llm-interactions.mdx

---
title: Execution Planning
description: Learn how to create structured execution plans for your LLM interactions
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

> Imagine that we've refactored our `generateDadJoke` program from our [Getting Started](/docs/ai/getting-started/) guide. Now, instead of handling all errors internally, the code can **fail with domain-specific issues** like network interruptions or provider outages:

Reviewer: > Now, instead of handling all errors internally, the code can fail with domain-specific issues like network interruptions or provider outages.

How does that happen? This caught me off guard. It might be worth adding a section to "Getting Started" that covers "Error Handling", showing how you can end up in this situation.

Author: I'm not sure how to show this other than just failing in the `generateDadJoke` program with specific errors. It's no different than [failing with an error in any other Effect program](https://effect.website/docs/error-management/expected-errors/).

In this case, I'm just saying "Ok, let's say the logic in `generateDadJoke` can now fail with these possible errors". I don't think it's worth introducing a contrived failure scenario in code unless you do. To me, the type declaration was enough.

class ProviderOutage extends Data.TaggedError("ProviderOutage") {}

declare const generateDadJoke: Effect.Effect<
  AiResponse.AiResponse, 
  NetworkError | ProviderOutage, 
  Completions.Completions
>

const main = Effect.gen(function*() {
  const gpt4o = yield* OpenAiCompletions.model("gpt-4o")
  const response = yield* gpt4o.provide(generateDadJoke)
})
```

This is fine, but what if we instead want to:
- Retry the program a fixed number of times on `NetworkError`s
- Add some backoff delay between retries
- Fallback to a different model provider if OpenAi is down

How can we accomplish such logic?

## The AiPlan Type

The Effect AI integrations provide a robust method for creating **structured execution plans** for your LLM interactions through the `AiPlan` data type. Rather than making a single model call and hoping it succeeds, `AiPlan` lets you describe how to handle retries, fallbacks, and recoverable errors in a clear, declarative way.

This is especially useful when:
- You want to fall back to a secondary model if the primary one is unavailable
- You want to retry on transient errors (e.g. network failures)
- You want to control timing between retry attempts

> Think of an `AiPlan` as the **blueprint** for executing a model, with logic for when to keep trying and when to switch strategies.

Author: ```suggestion
Think of an `AiPlan` as the **blueprint** for for an LLM interaction, with logic for when to keep trying to interact with one provider and when to switch providers.
```
